Properly document mapping of samm-c:Either to JSON payloads (#279)
eclipse-esmf/esmf-semantic-aspect-meta-model: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/payloads.adoc

.2+| Encoded binary data
| `xsd:hexBinary` | String
| `xsd:base64Binary` | String
.4+| Miscellaneous types
| `xsd:anyURI` | String
| `samm:curie` | String
| `rdf:langString`
| A JSON object with a structure as described in the rules above.

> | `samm-c:Either` | A JSON object with the left field and the value, which is one of the types proposed in `xref:characteristics.adoc#either-characteristic[Either]`.

Reviewer: Unfortunately we can't put this here, since `samm-c:Either` is not a datatype, but a Characteristic. We might need a separate section for this, something like "Specific payload mappings for Characteristics", or maybe something that sounds better than this.

}
----

[[characteristics-payload-mappings]]
== Specific payload mappings for Characteristics

This section describes how data payloads look like for specific xref:characteristics.adoc[Characteristics].

|===
| Characteristic Name | Corresponding JSON data type

> | `samm-c:Either` | A JSON object with the left field and the value, which is one of the types proposed in `xref:characteristics.adoc#either-characteristic[Either]`.

Author: Yes, agree with your proposal!

|===

Example for `samm-c:Either`, a Property `speedProperty` has Characteristic and effective data type `samm-c:Either` and the possible values
`ErrorMessage` (`xref:characteristics.adoc#single-entity-characteristic[Entity]` data type), which shows why speed can't be retrieved, or '60' (`xsd:integer`) would be serialized in the JSON payload as follows:

Example:

[source,turtle,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::example$aspect-with-either-characteristic.ttl[tags=aspect-with-either-characteristic]
----

Generated payload:

[source,json]
----
{
  "speedProperty" : {
    "left" : {
      "errorDescription" : "yedUsFwdkelQbxeTeQOvaScfqIOOmaa",
      "errorCode" : "eOMtThyhVNLWUZNRcBaQKxI"
    }
  }
}
----

or

[source,json]
----
{
  "speedProperty": {
    "left": 60
  }
}

> ----

Reviewer: `samm-c:Either` is not a data type (!), and neither is `samm-c:SingleEntity`, therefore I'd change the introductory sentence accordingly. Additionally, after reviewing the existing section [Declaring Either](https://eclipse-esmf.github.io/samm-specification/snapshot/modeling-guidelines.html#declaring-either), I've seen that it already provides an example and I think it would make sense to refer to that same example here, i.e., remove aspect-with-either-characteristic.ttl (and if necessary adapt aspect-with-double-either-characteristic.ttl accordingly).

```suggestion
The following example Aspect uses `samm-c:Either` to express that the Property `speedValue` can either return the integer value for speed, or an Error message (using an Entity), if the value could not be determined (cf. xref:modeling-guidelines.adoc#declaring-either[Declaring Either]).

So, assuming an Aspect Model has a Property `result` with its `samm:characteristic` set to `:Result` according to the following definition:

[source,turtle,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::example$declaring-either.ttl[tags=either-declaration]
----

the corresponding JSON payload either contain a `left` key with the error description:

[source,json]
----
{
  "result": {
    "left": {
      "errorCode": "...",
      "errorDescription": "..."
    }
  }
}
----

or it can contain a `right` key with the success status:

[source,json]
----
{
  "result": {
    "right": {
      "status": "..."
    }
  }
}
----

Author: Agree that 'Either' is not a datatype. I will fixed it. But also, having another one example here is good idea, because we don't disturbing user to open new page with example. But from another side, yes, we don't repeat the same docs.

Thanks!

> Another one example for Property `speedProperty` has Characteristic and effective data type `samm-c:Either`. Field `samm-c:left` with name 'Status' has type `samm-c:Either` and field `samm-c:right` with name 'Speed has type `xsd:integer`.

Reviewer: Adjust this paragraph and examples to match the example from either-declaration.ttl and the above paragraph

|===

The following example Aspect uses `samm-c:Either` to express that the Property `speedValue` can either return the integer value for speed,
or an Error message (using an Entity), if the value could not be determined (cf. xref:modeling-guidelines.adoc#declaring-either[Declaring Either]).

So, assuming an Aspect Model has a Property `result` with its `samm:characteristic` set to `:Result` according to the following definition:
[source,turtle,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::example$declaring-either.ttl[tags=either-declaration]
----

the corresponding JSON payload either contain a `left` key with the error description:
[source,json]
----
{
  "result": {
    "left": {
      "errorCode": "...",
      "errorDescription": "..."
    }
  }
}
----
or it can contain a `right` key with the success status:
[source,json]
----
{
  "result": {
    "right": {
      "status": "..."
    }
  }
}
----

> Another one example Aspect uses `samm-c:Either` to express that the Property `speedProperty` can either return the integer value for speed `SpeedValue`,
> or an `Error`, if the value could not be determined. `Error` can either return the `samm-c:Text` with simple error text or `ErrorMessage` (using an Entity) for details of error like `errorCode` and `errorDescription`.
> 
> So, assuming an Aspect has a Property `speedProperty` with `samm-characteristics` set to `:Result` according to the following definition:
> [source,turtle,subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example the Property `speedProperty` can either return the integer value for speed `SpeedValue`,
or an `Error`, if the value could not be determined. `Error` can either return the `samm-c:Text` with simple error text or `ErrorMessage` (using an Entity) for details of error like `errorCode` and `errorDescription`.

So, assuming the Property `speedProperty` with `samm-characteristics` set to `:Result` according to the following definition:
[source,turtle,subs="attributes+"]
```

----
include::example$aspect-with-double-either-characteristic.ttl[tags=aspect-with-double-either-characteristic]
----

> the corresponding JSON payload either contain a `left` key with the `Error`:

Reviewer: Remove this line

it can contain `right` key with the speed value:
[source,json]
----
{
  "speedProperty": {
    "right": 60
  }
}
----

or possible `left` key of `Error` contains Error message:
[source,json]
----
{
  "speedProperty" : {
    "left" : {
      "right" : {
        "errorDescription" : "...",
        "errorCode" : "..."
      }
    }
  }
}
----

or it can contain `right` key of `Error` with simple error text:
[source,json]
----
{
  "speedProperty" : {
    "left" : {
      "left" : "Simple error description..."
    }
  }
}
----

> CAUTION: Due to the https://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/5.1/#sec-8.5[limits in the

Author: I added new section here

}
----

[[characteristics-payload-mappings]]
== Specific payload mappings for Characteristics

This section describes how data payloads look like for specific xref:characteristics.adoc[Characteristics].

|===
| Characteristic Name | Corresponding JSON data type
| `samm-c:Either` | A JSON object with exactly either a `left` or `right` key. If the `left` key is present, its data type is the effective data type of the Characteristic referred to by `samm-c:left`; if the `right` key is present, its data type is the effective data type of the Characteristic referred to by `samm-c:right`.
|===

The following example Aspect uses `samm-c:Either` to express that the Property `speedValue` can either return the integer value for speed,
or an Error message (using an Entity), if the value could not be determined (cf. xref:modeling-guidelines.adoc#declaring-either[Declaring Either]).

So, assuming an Aspect Model has a Property `result` with its `samm:characteristic` set to `:Result` according to the following definition:
[source,turtle,subs="attributes+"]
----

> include:ROOT:example$either-declaration.ttl[tags=either-declaration]

Reviewer: Apparently two colons are needed to resolve the include correctly, my previous suggestion was wrong. This works:
```suggestion
include::ROOT:example$either-declaration.ttl[tags=either-declaration]
```

----

> the corresponding JSON payload either contain a `left` key with the error description:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the corresponding JSON payload either contains a `left` key with the error description:
```

}
----

[[characteristics-payload-mappings]]
== Specific payload mappings for Characteristics

> In this section provided specific cases for the xref:characteristics.adoc[Characteristics].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes how data payloads look like for specific xref:characteristics.adoc[Characteristics].
```

}
----

Another one example for `samm-c:Either`, a Property `speedProperty` has Characteristic and effective data type `samm-c:Either` and the possible values

> `isMoving` (`xref:datatypes.adoc#data-types[xsd:boolean]` data type) or '60' (`Number`) would be serialized in the JSON payload as follows:

Reviewer: What is `Number`? The example should use actual types (e.g., `xsd:int`) instead

[source,json]
----
{
  "speedProperty": {
    "left": true
  }
}

> or

Reviewer: This 'or' is in the middle of the JSON source block. Instead the block before should be closed and the one after should be opened again

{
  "speedProperty": {
    "left": 60
  }
}
----

> A Property `speedProperty` has Characteristic and effective data type `samm-c:Either`. Field `samm-c:left` has type `samm-c:Either` and field `samm-c:right` has type `xref:datatypes.adoc#data-types[xsd:boolean]`.

Reviewer: This is confusing, because it mixes types and Characteristics. I think it would help if the example showed (parts of) an actual Aspect Model.

Author: Yes, I will make.

Thanks!
